[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: This code that I'm going
to show you is a full stack JavaScript
application that is it's doing
both the middle end stuff and
what we would consider backend stuff,
all in one piece.
In fact,
it really isn't much of a backend.
So, I'm not dealing with anything
with databases or whatever.
[COUGH] By the way on
the topic of data validation,
the greatest part about data validation
rules is, you don't just write them once.
You don't just write them twice,
you actually write them three times.
You write them once in your application
code, once in your JavaScript and
then your database guys is
I don't trust them at all.
I'm gonna rewrite it and
stored procedures and
now you have three Copies of
your data validation rules.
Anyway, that's just a side topic.
So, what we're gonna look
at essentially is a way to
just in a very simple integrated way,
write some code in a Node application in
the Node slash IO whatever application.
That serves up the backend,
if you will, the backend and
the middle end of our application.
And it tries, in whatever ways possible,
to share some code with what's gonna
happen in the front end, okay?
So the app that I'm gonna show you, let me
just show you the finished version of it.
Cuz it's actually a little
mini site that I launched.
Nobody's gonna care that
much about the site, but
its a little mini site that I
launched called securephrase.io.
I don't know if any of
you have ever heard.
Hopefully.
I haven't tried it today.
So hopefully it's not dead.
Have any of you ever heard of diceware?
It's an algorithm for generating secure
passphrases using random word generation.
Passphrase is being not
like your passwords, but
the things that you would do.
Yeah, this doesn't seem to be loading.
I'll triage that in a moment on a break or
something, but I can.
Is it a connection issue,
probably it's a connection issue.
It's why you always have
a local of something right?
It's like I've done this a few times.
So this my little secure phrase
generator thing, it's just a toy site.
But I did it because I wanted something
to generate these phrases for
my own purposes, and I thought hey, that's
a great thing that I could teach with.
So a week ago I said,
I've got this workshop coming up.
I want to teach some people
some of these ideas.
I'll just build a site.
So this has been built in the last week.
It's rough.
It's not nice or great, or whatever, but
it does illustrate the concepts
that we want to go through.
And this is just,
it's a silly application, but you tell it
how many words you want in your phrase.
It generates the phrase and
it gives you some nonsense phrases
to use as your passphrase.
So there's a couple of things to
observe about this application.
Actually, give me just a second.
It appears to be,
>> Kyle Simpson: Actually, it's kind
of fortuitous that it's working,
and notice that it's working.
But if you look closely,
every time I click that it's
actually doing a full form submit.
Something about my client side,
JavaScript, isn't working correctly and
I'm going to have to check into
what's going on with that.
Which I'll look at over at break but.
Basically, what this is doing is,
it's illustrating the idea that I want
the server side to be able to do this work
exactly the same as I want the client
side to be able to do the work.
I don't want to have to
rewrite this logic for
generating past phrases in both places.
So, in the fallback case which is
what's happening here where my
JavaScript is somehow broken for
some reason.
In that fallback case, I want it to
be able to just gracefully fall back
to calling back to the server and running
the exact same code on the server, and
on I wasn't intending to show you that,
but it's broken in some way.
With JavaScript's not getting served
up correctly and it still falls back
to sending that request across the wire
and working the way that we'd expect.